---
title: TetCTF flip Write Up
categories: [CTF, WriteUp]
---

["Xin phép nói bằng tiếng Việt!"](https://letiendat198.github.io/posts/vi/TetCTFWU) Tại nói bằng tiếng Anh sợ người Mỹ không hiểu.

A write up for only the easiest challenge? Yeah! Why? Skill issue!

The python code overwrite key and plaintext in the encrypt binary. We see that it will print a ciphertext as the result of executing the modified binary. Now how do we get the key to get the flag?

We could flip a bit at an arbitrary address. Not enough to flip the hidden key to our favor, flipping the plaintext not gonna do anything either.

A few ideas came to mind. We could flip the key of AES init to plaintext so that we know the key. But the python code ask for the key IT generated. So nah.
We see that the binary will print out the ciphertext. What if instead of printing out ciphertext (which is actually located at plaintext address), we make it print the key out instead.

In the python code supplied, `key` is located at `0x4020`, `plaintext` is located at `0x4010`. Maybe a XOR can change that.

But in GDB, the address of key is 0x5020, plaintext is 0x5010. Still only a 0x10 difference so the bit flip we going to do is still the same. (Variable addresses in Python file is the actual address in binary file while GDB variable address only true in GDB, but oddly the instruction address in GDB is still the same in binary???)

In GDB: `0x11be<+85>:    lea 0x3e4b(%rip),%rax  #0x5010 <plaintext>` right before call instruction to write()

Which means 0x3e4b+rip=0x5010 (???)
We want it to be `0x5020 <\key>` instead so we want to add 0x10 to 0x3e4b and make it 0x3e5b.

```
0x4b: 0100 1011
        ^1 0000
0x5b: 0101 1011
```


We will flip we 5th bit of 0x4b to change it to 0x5b (Cảm tạ cô Đào dạy ĐTS trường P)

Opening hexeditor we'll find 0x488d at 0x11be (which is probably hex for lea instruction I believe) and the hex 4b3e (little endian) at line 0x11c0. 0x4b is located at 0x11c1.

The python code allow us to change choose address and the amount of left shift of 1
Choose the address of 0x11c1 (4545), to flip bit 5 we need to shift 1 left 4 bit (Hence the payload)
`Payload: 1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef 4545 4`
Now write() will have the argument key instead of plaintext. Which effectively give us the encryption key.